# Getting Started with AIPR

AIPR (AI-Powered Pull Request) is a Github action designed to streamline issue resolution and improve collaboration within project teams. This action uses ChatGPT by OpenAI to create a pull request (PR) for issues labeled "AIPR" in the repository. The PR created by AIPR contains a solution generated by ChatGPT, which uses machine learning algorithms to generate human-like text based on the issue description and comments. This action is designed to make it faster and easier to resolve issues and improve the overall efficiency of software development teams.

## How AIPR Works

1. When an issue is labeled "AIPR" in a project repository, the AIPR Github action is triggered.
2. The action uses the issue description and comments to generate a solution using ChatGPT.
3. The solution is added to a new PR and pushed to the repository.
4. Project collaborators can review the solution and merge the PR if they decide it is an appropriate solution.

## How to Use AIPR in Your Project

1. Install the AIPR repository as a dependency in your project.
2. Create an issue in your project repository and label it with "AIPR".
3. Once the issue is labeled, the AIPR Github action will automatically create a PR to solve the issue using ChatGPT.
4. Alternatively, you can manually trigger AIPR by commenting on the issue, such as "Create PR with AIPR 🚀." This will also create a PR using ChatGPT.

## Sample Workflow File

A sample workflow file `AIPR.yaml` inside the workflow folder could look like this:

```
on:
  issues:
    types: [labeled]
  issue_comment:
    types: [created]

permissions:
  contents: write
  issues: write
  pull-requests: write

jobs:
  Creating-PR-using-AIPR:
    if: ${{ (github.event_name == 'issues' && 
             contains( github.event.label.name, 'AIPR')) || 
            (github.event_name == 'issue_comment' && 
             github.event.issue.pull_request &&
             contains( github.event.comment.body, 'Create PR with AIPR 🚀')) }}
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - name: Executing AIPR action
      uses: alexanmtz/AIPR@main
      with:
        openai_api_key: ${{ secrets.OPENAI_API_KEY }}
        openai_tokens: 200 # default is 200
```
This workflow file will trigger the AIPR action when an issue is labeled or reopened.

## General Instructions for Github Actions

Github Actions are automated workflows that you can customize to build, test, and deploy projects automatically in your repository. You can create custom actions or use pre-made ones from the [Github Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace?type=actions). 

To use a GitHub Action, you must create a workflow file (.yaml) in your project repository. This file contains the steps to execute when a specific event occurs, such as pushing code, creating an issue, or adding a label. These steps can combine shell commands and actions from the GitHub Marketplace.

Once a workflow file is created and pushed to your repository, it will start running when the specified event occurs. You can view the status of your workflows in the "Actions" tab of your repository. 

For more detailed instructions on using Github Actions in your project, check out the [Github Actions documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions).

## How to Collaborate with AIPR

1. Fork the [AIPR repository](https://github.com/alexanmtz/AIPR) into your own Github account.
2. Commit and push your changes to your fork.
3. Create a PULL REQUEST to merge your changes into the main AIPR repository.
4. To create an issue in the AIPR repository, navigate to the "Issues" tab and click on the "New issue" button.
5. Add a title and description for your issue, as well as any relevant labels.
6. If you would like to use AIPR to generate a solution for your issue, make sure to add the "AIPR" label.
7. Once the issue is created, the AIPR action will automatically create a pull request with a solution generated by ChatGPT.
8. Collaborators can review the PR and merge it if they find the solution applicable to the issue.
